---
keywords: fastai
title: Video 3.9-11 Hacks
toc: true 
badges: true
sticky_rank: 1
author: Haeryn Yu
categories: [week4, notes]
nb_path: _notebooks/2022-12-06-3.9-11-Hacks-and-Notes.ipynb
layout: notebook
---

<!--
#################################################
### THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! ###
#################################################
# file to edit: _notebooks/2022-12-06-3.9-11-Hacks-and-Notes.ipynb
-->

<div class="container" id="notebook-container">
        
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h2 id="Notes">Notes<a class="anchor-link" href="#Notes"> </a></h2><h3 id="3.9-Video-1">3.9 Video 1<a class="anchor-link" href="#3.9-Video-1"> </a></h3><h4 id="Essential-Knowledge">Essential Knowledge<a class="anchor-link" href="#Essential-Knowledge"> </a></h4><ul>
<li>Algorithms can be written in different ways and still accomplish the same tasks</li>
<li>Algorithms that appear similar can yield different side effects or results</li>
<li>Some conditional statements can be written as equivalent Boolean expressions</li>
<li>Some Boolean expressions can be written as equivalent conditional statements</li>
<li>Different algorithms can be developed or used to solve the same problem
#### Conditional vs Boolean</li>
<li><p>How could this conditional scenario be replaced with a boolean scenario?</p>
</li>
<li><p>IF (isHoliday)</p>
</li>
<li>{   <ul>
<li>school⟵false   </li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>}   </li>
<li>ELSE   </li>
<li>{   <ul>
<li>IF(isWeekday)   </li>
<li>{   <ul>
<li>school⟵true   </li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>}   </li>
<li>ELSE   </li>
<li>{   <ul>
<li>school⟵false   </li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>}   </li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>}   </li>
</ul>
<p><strong>What needs to be true and what needs to be false in order for you to go to school?</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>First conditional: If isHoliday is true, you do not need to go to school</li>
<li>Second conditional: If isWeekday is true, you do need to go to school. However, if it is false, school also becomes false</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Therefore, in pseudo code, this statement could be written as:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>school⟵((NOT (isHoliday)) AND (isWeekday))</li>
<li>Keep in mind that both of these statements yield the same results, and neither of them are incorrect</li>
</ul>
<h4 id="More-Comparing-Algorithms">More Comparing Algorithms<a class="anchor-link" href="#More-Comparing-Algorithms"> </a></h4><p>The algorithms below are to sum the odd numbers from 1 to 9 (1+3+5+7+9). Do they each work as intended?</p>
<ol>
<li></li>
<li>sum⟵1</li>
</ol>
<ul>
<li>counter⟵3</li>
<li>REPEAT 4 TIMES<ul>
<li>sum⟵sum + counter</li>
<li>counter⟵counter + 2</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>DISPLAY sum</li>
</ul>
<ol>
<li></li>
<li>sum⟵0</li>
</ol>
<ul>
<li>counter⟵9</li>
<li>REPEAT UNTIL counter &lt; 1<ul>
<li>sum⟵sum + counter</li>
<li>counter⟵counter - 2</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>DISPLAY sum</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Why is it important to understand that algorithms can be written in different ways and still accomplish the same tasks?</strong></p>
<h3 id="3.9-Video-2">3.9 Video 2<a class="anchor-link" href="#3.9-Video-2"> </a></h3><h4 id="Essential-Knowledge">Essential Knowledge<a class="anchor-link" href="#Essential-Knowledge"> </a></h4><ul>
<li>Algorithms can be created from an idea, 
by combining existing algorithms, 
or by modifying existing algorithms.</li>
</ul>
<h4 id="Vocab">Vocab<a class="anchor-link" href="#Vocab"> </a></h4><ul>
<li>Iteration: Repeating steps, or instructions over and over again. 
( this could be also often called a loop ) </li>
<li>Selection: is a decision or question. At some point in an algorithm there may need to be a question because the algorithm has reached a step where one or more options are available.
### 3.9 Video 3</li>
</ul>
<h4 id="Essential-Knowledge">Essential Knowledge<a class="anchor-link" href="#Essential-Knowledge"> </a></h4><ul>
<li>Knowledge of existing algorithms can help in constructing new ones. Some existing algorithms include:
Determining the maximum or minimum value of two or more numbers.
Computing the sum or average of two or more numbers.
Identifying if an integer is or is not evenly divisible by another integer.
Determining a robot's path through a maze.</li>
<li>Using existing correct algorithms as building blocks for constructing another algorithm has benefits such as reducing development time, reduce testing, and simplifying the identification of errors.</li>
</ul>
<h4 id="Vocab">Vocab<a class="anchor-link" href="#Vocab"> </a></h4><ul>
<li>Algorithm: A process or set of rules to be followed in calculations or other problem solving operations, especially by a computer.
### 3.11
#### Learning Objective</li>
<li>For binary search algorithims<ul>
<li>Determine the number of iterations required to find a value in a data set. </li>
<li>Explain the requirements necessary to complete a binary search.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>The binary search algorithm starts at the middle of a sorted data set of numbers and eliminates half of the data; this process repeats until the desired value is found or all elements have been eliminated.</li>
<li>Data must be in sorted order to use the binary search algorithm </li>
<li>A binary search is often more efficient than sequential/linear search when applied to sorted data.</li>
</ul>
<h4 id="Essential-knowledge">Essential knowledge<a class="anchor-link" href="#Essential-knowledge"> </a></h4><ul>
<li>Imagine you had to search for a number in a huge set. How would you do it? Would you pick randomly or would you put them in order first?</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="Hacks">Hacks<a class="anchor-link" href="#Hacks"> </a></h2><h3 id="Question-1">Question 1<a class="anchor-link" href="#Question-1"> </a></h3><p>Write this Boolean statement in the form of a conditional (if/else) statement: stayInside⟵((isCold) OR (isRaining))</p>
<p>{
if(isRaining){
    day --&gt; "cold"
}
if(isCold){
    day --&gt; "cold"
}
}</p>
<h3 id="Question-2">Question 2<a class="anchor-link" href="#Question-2"> </a></h3><p>Create an algorithm that uses selection and/or iteration that will represent one player's complete turn.</p>
<p>import random</p>
<p>def turn():
    max = 0
    for i in range(4):
        start = random.randint(1, 10)
        if start &gt; max:
            max = max
    print(max)</p>
<p>turn()
turn()</p>

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
 

