---
keywords: fastai
title: Video 3.1-2 Notes and Hacks
toc: true 
badges: true
sticky_rank: 1
author: Haeryn Yu
categories: [week2, notes]
nb_path: _notebooks/2022-12-02-3.1-2-Hacks-and-Notes.ipynb
layout: notebook
---

<!--
#################################################
### THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! ###
#################################################
# file to edit: _notebooks/2022-12-02-3.1-2-Hacks-and-Notes.ipynb
-->

<div class="container" id="notebook-container">
        
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h2 id="3.1.1-Notes">3.1.1 Notes<a class="anchor-link" href="#3.1.1-Notes"> </a></h2><h3 id="Variables-and-Assignments">Variables and Assignments<a class="anchor-link" href="#Variables-and-Assignments"> </a></h3><h3 id="Essential-Knowledge:">Essential Knowledge:<a class="anchor-link" href="#Essential-Knowledge:"> </a></h3><ul>
<li>A variable is an abstraction inside a program that can hold a value. Each variable has associated data storage that represents one value at a time, but that value can be a list or other collection that in turn contains multiple values.</li>
<li>Using meaningful variable names helps with readability of program code and understanding of what values are represented by the variables.</li>
<li>Some programming languages provide types to represent data, which are referenced using variables. These types include numbers, Booleans, lists, and strings.</li>
<li>Some values are better suited to representation using one type of datum rather than another.</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="What-is-a-variable?">What is a variable?<a class="anchor-link" href="#What-is-a-variable?"> </a></h3><ul>
<li>An abstraction inside a program that can hold a value</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="An-example-naming-variables">An example naming variables<a class="anchor-link" href="#An-example-naming-variables"> </a></h3><ul>
<li>You want to store the highest score you scored in a game. So, you want to call this variable highScore</li>
<li>You want to store a name, so you can call the variable firstName</li>
<li>It is also possible to store true or false in a variable. For example, the variable could be called isSunny, where true and false are stored in the variable.</li>
<li>phoneNumber could be a variable that stores phone numbers.</li>
<li>These examples are short and convenient as opposed to a long description</li>
<li>However, they give insight to the basic goal of the variable.</li>
<li>Spaces also cause a problem because it is not allowed</li>
<li>Dashes and numbers are also less ideal.</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="Data-Type-examples">Data Type examples<a class="anchor-link" href="#Data-Type-examples"> </a></h3><ul>
<li>highScore --&gt; an integer<ul>
<li>probably doing addition or subtraction, save it as an integer or numbers.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>firstName --&gt; text(or string)<ul>
<li>since a name is text, it should be saved as a string</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>isSunny --&gt; boolean<ul>
<li>only gives two options: true or false within variable</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>phoneNumber --&gt; text(string)<ul>
<li>no math involved just a string of numbers</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="Practice">Practice<a class="anchor-link" href="#Practice"> </a></h3><p>Question: What would be the best variable name and data type to store a user's age in a program?</p>
<ul>
<li>Answer: name: age       data type: integer</li>
</ul>
<p>Q: What would be the best variable name and data type to store the number of students in your class?</p>
<ul>
<li>A: name: numStudents        data type: integer to add and subtract</li>
</ul>
<p>Q: What would be the best variable name and data type to store the title of a movie?</p>
<ul>
<li>A: name: movieTitle      data type: text(or string)</li>
</ul>
<p>Q: What would be the best variable name and data type to store if someone's pet is a dog.</p>
<ul>
<li>A: name: isDog      data type: boolean</li>
</ul>

</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h2 id="3.1.2-Notes">3.1.2 Notes<a class="anchor-link" href="#3.1.2-Notes"> </a></h2><h3 id="What-will-you-learn?">What will you learn?<a class="anchor-link" href="#What-will-you-learn?"> </a></h3><p>You will learn how to determine the value of a variable as a result of an assignment.</p>
<h3 id="Essential-Knowledge">Essential Knowledge<a class="anchor-link" href="#Essential-Knowledge"> </a></h3><ul>
<li>The assignment operater allows a program to change the value represented to a variable. </li>
<li>The exam reference sheet uses the "⟵" to use for assignment. For example,
Text: a ⟵ expression
Then the code would display a block text of "a ⟵ expression". The code will evaluate expression and then assigns a copy of the result to the variable a. </li>
<li><p>The value stored in a variable will be the most recent value assigned. For example,</p>
<ul>
<li>a ⟵ 1</li>
<li>a ⟵ b</li>
<li><p>a ⟵ 2</p>
<p>display(b)</p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p>The code will display 1.</p>
<h3 id="Storing-Values">Storing Values<a class="anchor-link" href="#Storing-Values"> </a></h3><p>When storing values, you assign them to a variable.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<ol>
<li>highScore ⟵ 100</li>
</ol>
<ul>
<li>The highScore is my assignment operator and it is storing the value of 100 inside itself as a variable. This will set my highScore to 100. </li>
</ul>
<ol>
<li>firstName ⟵ "Ashley"</li>
</ol>
<ul>
<li>The firstName is the variable and the text we are storing inside is "Ashley." We know that the name is in text because of the quotation marks around the assignment. </li>
</ul>
<ol>
<li>isRaining ⟵ true</li>
</ol>
<ul>
<li>The isRaining variable has the intention to be a Boolean variable which checks true or false, but it's been assigned to store the value true.</li>
</ul>
<ol>
<li>phoneNumber ⟵ "555-0101"</li>
</ol>
<ul>
<li>The phoneNumber variable and the number we are storing is "555-0101" The number is written within text because we are not planning to do math with this number. </li>
</ul>
<h3 id="Additional-Vocabulary">Additional Vocabulary<a class="anchor-link" href="#Additional-Vocabulary"> </a></h3><p>Elements: individual value in a list that is assigned a unique index. And elements are referenced by an index.</p>
<p>Index: referencing elements in a list or string using natural numbers</p>

</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h2 id="3.2.2-Notes">3.2.2 Notes<a class="anchor-link" href="#3.2.2-Notes"> </a></h2><h3 id="Lists">Lists<a class="anchor-link" href="#Lists"> </a></h3><p><strong>Lists allow for data abstraction</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Variables like strings, numbers, characters, and more can be bundled together</li>
<li>It could be empty from the start and you can add more variables as needed</li>
<li>If you set one list equal to another list, or transfer data from one list to another, the data will be completely replaced. </li>
<li>You can also append data from one list to another, keeping the old data and adding the new data.</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="Key-Vocabulary">Key Vocabulary<a class="anchor-link" href="#Key-Vocabulary"> </a></h3><ul>
<li><em>list</em>: a sequence of several variables grouped together</li>
<li><em>variable</em>: a way of storing information in a computer program, which could later be changed, referenced, and used</li>
<li><em>data types</em>: a set of values and operations on those values</li>
<li><em>abstract data types</em>: a data type whose internal representation is hidden from the client</li>
<li><em>client</em>: a program that uses a data type</li>
<li><em>objects</em>: a structure  that can take on a data-type value </li>
<li><em>Applications programming interface (API)</em>: which is a list of constructors and instance methods or operations, used to specify the behavior of an abstract data type</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="Big-Ideas">Big Ideas<a class="anchor-link" href="#Big-Ideas"> </a></h3><ol>
<li>Lists can store any types of elements. </li>
<li>In all lists operations, if a list index is less than 1 or greater than the length of the list, an error message is made and the program will terminate. </li>
<li>Data abstraction provides a separation between the abstract properties of a data type and the concrete details of its representation. </li>
</ol>

</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h2 id="3.1.1-Hacks">3.1.1 Hacks<a class="anchor-link" href="#3.1.1-Hacks"> </a></h2><p>Question 1:</p>
<ul>
<li>The answer is 1 because it is counting a number that is changing so it is integer. </li>
</ul>
<p>Question 2:</p>
<ul>
<li>The answer is 3 because it is a true or false question. </li>
</ul>
<p>Question 3:</p>
<ul>
<li>The answer is 1 because it is a number that is not changing.</li>
</ul>
<p>Question 4:</p>
<ul>
<li>The answer is 2 because it is too long.</li>
</ul>
<p>Question 5:</p>
<ul>
<li>The answer is 1 because it is true or false.</li>
</ul>
<p>Question 6:</p>
<ul>
<li>The answer is 4 because it is true statements.</li>
</ul>
<p>Practice Questions I made:</p>
<ol>
<li>To check if the weather is good or not, what should it be? It is weatherGood and boolean</li>
<li>To record the highest test score, what should it be? It is highTestScore and string</li>
<li>To record the color of the phone, what should it be? It is phoneColor and string</li>
</ol>

</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h2 id="3.1.2-Hacks">3.1.2 Hacks<a class="anchor-link" href="#3.1.2-Hacks"> </a></h2><p>I got the last question wrong, and that's because I forgot which order it went and that it does not repeat at all. I now know that the correct answer is because the variables have values thanks to the previous five statements. In the sixth sentence, b is given the value of x + b, which is 40. The seventh sentence gives a the value of x + 1, or 21. The value of c + d / 2 is assigned to d in the ninth sentence. Division takes priority over addition in the order of operations. The number 50 is given to d since c is 30 and d / 2 is 20. The values of a, b, c, and d are shown in the final four assertions.</p>
<p>Practice Questions I made:</p>
<ul>
<li>Question 1</li>
</ul>
<p>num1 &lt;- 8</p>
<p>num2 &lt;- 3</p>
<p>num2 &lt;- num1 + num2</p>
<p>DISPLAY(num2) = 11</p>
<ul>
<li>Question 2</li>
</ul>
<p>A &lt;- 4</p>
<p>B &lt;- 5</p>
<p>X &lt;- A</p>
<p>DISPLAY(B) = 5</p>
<ul>
<li>Question 3</li>
</ul>
<p>Y &lt;- 1</p>
<p>Z &lt;- 2</p>
<p>W &lt;- Y</p>
<p>DISPLAY(W) = 1</p>
<ul>
<li>Question 4</li>
</ul>
<p>T &lt;- 45</p>
<p>D &lt;- 12</p>
<p>X &lt;- T + D</p>
<p>DISPLAY(X) = 57</p>
<ul>
<li>Question 5</li>
</ul>
<p>testA &lt;- 40</p>
<p>testB &lt;- 50</p>
<p>testC &lt;- 60</p>
<p>testAll &lt;- testA + testB + testC</p>
<p>DISPLAY(testAll) = 150</p>
<ul>
<li>Question 6</li>
</ul>
<p>labD &lt;- 1</p>
<p>labE &lt;- 2</p>
<p>labD &lt;- labE</p>
<p>DISPLAY(B) = 1</p>

</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h2 id="3.2.2-Hacks">3.2.2 Hacks<a class="anchor-link" href="#3.2.2-Hacks"> </a></h2><p>Question 1: 7</p>
<p>Question 2: 11</p>
<p>Question 3: 107</p>
<p>Question 4: 1100</p>
<p>Question 5: 101100</p>
<p>Question 6: 11111110</p>
<p>Question 7: 4</p>
<p>Question 8: 1</p>
<p>Question 9: 3</p>
<p>Question 10: 4</p>
<p>Question 11: 4</p>
<p>Question 12: 2</p>
<p>Question 13: 3</p>
<p>Question 14: 2</p>
<p>Question 15: 6</p>

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
 

