---
keywords: fastai
title: Video 3.12-13 Hacks
toc: true 
badges: true
sticky_rank: 1
author: Haeryn Yu
categories: [week4, notes]
nb_path: _notebooks/2022-12-08-3.12-13-Hacks-and-Notes.ipynb
layout: notebook
---

<!--
#################################################
### THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! ###
#################################################
# file to edit: _notebooks/2022-12-08-3.12-13-Hacks-and-Notes.ipynb
-->

<div class="container" id="notebook-container">
        
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h2 id="Notes">Notes<a class="anchor-link" href="#Notes"> </a></h2><h3 id="3.12-Notes">3.12 Notes<a class="anchor-link" href="#3.12-Notes"> </a></h3><h4 id="What-is-a-procedure-and-a-parameter?">What is a procedure and a parameter?<a class="anchor-link" href="#What-is-a-procedure-and-a-parameter?"> </a></h4><p>A procedure is a named group of programming instructions that may have parameters and return values.</p>
<p>Procedures can be reffered to as method or function depending on the programing language.</p>
<ul>
<li>A procedrure call interrupts an execution of statements and makes the program execute the statements in the procedure.</li>
<li>Parameters are input values of a procedure.</li>
</ul>
<p>Arguements specifcy the values of the parameters when a procedure is called.</p>
<p>If you have a set of statements and inside there is a procedure then when it reaches that procedure it will excute that procedure and then go back to the rest of the statments.</p>
<p>If you see a return statement you automatically end the procedure even if there is more statements</p>
<ul>
<li>Procedures are that a catch-all term for codes used to identify what was done to or given to a patient</li>
</ul>
<p>If you have a set of statements in a procedure the statement will go thought the top of the procedure to the bottom in order.</p>
<h3 id="3.13-Notes">3.13 Notes<a class="anchor-link" href="#3.13-Notes"> </a></h3><ul>
<li>Procedure: is a named group of programming instructions that serves a purpose</li>
<li>Parameter: are input values of a procedur</li>
<li>There are two types of procedures, one that returns a value or some type of data and on that just executes a block of statements</li>
<li>Modularity: the practice of breaking a complex program into smaller, independent parts or modules that can be used and reused in different parts of the program</li>
</ul>
<h4 id="Creating-a-Procedure">Creating a Procedure<a class="anchor-link" href="#Creating-a-Procedure"> </a></h4><ol>
<li>When you are picking a name for the procedure it must be descriptive</li>
<li>See if you need any parameters for this procedure (what data do you need to accomplish my goal? What king of information am I going to need?)</li>
<li>2 of the parameters in the example below could be the quizGrade and currentPoints (need this data)</li>
</ol>
<p>One common type of abstraction is procedrual abstraction, which provides a name for a process and allows a procedure to be only knowing what it doe,not how it does it. The subdivision of a computer program into sepearate subprogrames is called modularity.</p>
<h4 id="How-do-we-make-our-procedure-purposeful-and-consice">How do we make our procedure purposeful and consice<a class="anchor-link" href="#How-do-we-make-our-procedure-purposeful-and-consice"> </a></h4><ul>
<li>to make a procedure serve a purpose it should be able to have multiple functions</li>
<li>Also to keep a procedure maximizing capability it should be simple and reduced to get the final result</li>
</ul>
<h4 id="What-is-important-to-do-while-writing-procedures">What is important to do while writing procedures<a class="anchor-link" href="#What-is-important-to-do-while-writing-procedures"> </a></h4><p>It is important to understand you procudeures procedure does when creating one as it will help you create a impactful procedure</p>

</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h2 id="Hacks">Hacks<a class="anchor-link" href="#Hacks"> </a></h2><h3 id="3.12-Part-1-Hacks">3.12 Part 1 Hacks<a class="anchor-link" href="#3.12-Part-1-Hacks"> </a></h3><ul>
<li>Problem 1: This problem involves parameters</li>
</ul>
<p>Qais is writing code to calculate formulas from his math class. He's currently working on a procedure to calculate average speed, based on this formula:</p>
<p>Average speed = Total Time/Total Distance​</p>
<p>Highlight which of these is the best procedure for calculating and displaying average speed.</p>
<p>PROCEDURE calcAvgSpeed (distance, time) { DISPLAY (distance/time) }</p>
<p>PROCEDURE calcAvgSpeed (distance) { DISPLAY (distance/time) }</p>
<p>PROCEDURE calcAvgSpeed (distance, time) { DISPLAY (time/distance) }</p>
<ul>
<li>Problem 2: Procedures with return values
James Hunter is looking through his classmate's program and sees a procedure called heightenEmotions: PROCEDURE heightenEmotions(myEmotion)</li>
</ul>
<p>{ moreEnergy ← CONCAT(myEmotion, "!!!")</p>
<p>moreVolume ← UPPER(moreEnergy)</p>
<p>RETURN moreVolume }</p>
<p>That procedure manipulates strings using two built-in procedures, CONCAT for concatenating two strings together, and UPPER for converting a string to uppercase.</p>
<p>James Hunter then sees this line of code:</p>
<p>heightenEmotions("im mad")</p>
<p>After that line of code runs, will nothing be displayed?</p>
<p>False</p>
<ul>
<li>Problem 3:
Bubz is writing a program to calculate the carbon footprint of his activities. The procedure calcFlightFootprint calculates the pounds of carbon dioxide produced per passenger in a flight that covers a given number of miles and seats a given number of passengers.</li>
</ul>
<p>PROCEDURE calcFlightFootprint(numMiles, numPassengers) { CO2_PER_MILE ← 53.29</p>
<p>carbonPerFlight ← numMiles * CO2_PER_MILE</p>
<p>carbonPerPassenger ← carbonPerFlight / numPassengers</p>
<p>RETURN carbonPerPassenger</p>
<p>}</p>
<p>Bubz wants to use that procedure to calculate the total footprint for his two upcoming flights: LA to NY: 2,451 miles and 118 passengers NY to London: 3,442 miles and 252 passengers</p>
<p>Which of these code snippets successfully calculates and stores her total footprint? Highlight 2 answers.</p>
<p>totalFootprint ← calcFlightFootprint(2451, 118) + calcFlightFootprint(3442, 252)</p>
<p>totalFootprint ← calcFlightFootprint((2451, 118) + (3442, 252))</p>
<h3 id="3.12-Homework/Hacks-part-2">3.12 Homework/Hacks part 2<a class="anchor-link" href="#3.12-Homework/Hacks-part-2"> </a></h3><p>a = 729</p>
<p>the cost is $190.30</p>
<p>answer = 39.444</p>
<h3 id="3.13-Hacks">3.13 Hacks<a class="anchor-link" href="#3.13-Hacks"> </a></h3><ol>
<li>Create a procedure that is meant to replace the top running backs yards per game in one season if the current running back has more yards per game
Necessary Parameters: toprbyardspg(100), currentrbyards(1260), totalGames(12)</li>
</ol>
<p>if currentrbyards(1260) &gt; toprbyardspg(100)
    replace(toprbyardspg(100), currentrbyards(1260), totalGames(12))
    currentrbyards(1260)/ totalGames(12)</p>
<ol>
<li><p>Write a procedure that will allow the A+ to get to the 1, while avoiding the black boxes.
PROCEDURE getAplus(){
If (can_MoveForward):
Move_Forward
Else (can_MoveRight):
Rotate_Right
Move_Forward
If (can_MoveLeft);
Rotate_Left
Move_forward
}</p>
</li>
<li><p>Which Is the Correct Way to define the Name of a Procedure?</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>B. PROCEDURE MyList</p>
<p>because procedure should be in all caps and part of the procedure name should be capitalized</p>
<ol>
<li>Write A Procedure That gets the BeachBall To the Green Square
PROCEDURE BallToGreen{
Rotate_Left
Move_Forward
Rotate_Right 
Move_Forward( until count = 6)
break
Rotate_Left
Move_Forward (until count=2) 
break
}</li>
</ol>

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
 

