---
toc: true
layout: post
categories: [week21]
title: 5.5-6 Hacks
---

## 5.5 Hacks
1. When you create a GitHub repository it requests a license type. Review the license types in relationship to this Tech Talk and make some notes in your personal blog. 

2. In your blog, summarize the discussions and personal analysis on Software Licenses/Options, Digital Rights, and other Legal and Ethical thoughts from this College Board topic. 

3. Make a license for your personal (blog) and Team repositories for the CPT project. Be sure to have a license for both Team GitHub repositories (frontend/backend). Document license(s) you picked and why. FYI, frontend, since it is built on GitHub pages may come with a license and restrictions. Document in blog how team made license choice and process of update.

We choose to utilize the MIT License for both my personal blog and the Team CPT Project Repository. The MIT License was chosen for both repositories primarily because it is extremely liberal and encourages the use of open-source software. For instance, in our CSP Community, another group should be able to refer to and even take code snippets from our repository and just quote our names if they are having trouble finding a code snippet to add a feature comparable to anything we have on our group project.

## 5.6 Hacks

1. Describe PII you have seen on project in CompSci Principles.
- User account login information is one of the main types of PII I have observed in projects in computer science. This includes usernames and passwords for accounts on websites that house crucial user data.

2. What are your feelings about PII and your personal exposure?
- Personal exposure is, in my opinion, a very real concern in the world of today, and I believe that PII is incredibly essential. This is why it's crucial that we use strong passwords and maintain our own private information close to hand.

3. Describe good and bad passwords? What is another step that is used to assist in authentication.
- Strong passwords are those that have some level of difficulty. This entails using passwords that are at least 8 to 10 characters long and contain a mix of special characters, capital and lowercase letters, and digits to make them challenging to decipher. Passwords that are brief and simple to guess are considered bad passwords. Multi-factor authentication, which requires two steps to validate a user's account creation, login, or deletion, is another step used to help with authentication. The requirement of password complexity when a user establishes an account helps with authentication by ensuring that passwords are secure at the time of creation.

4. Try to describe Symmetric and Asymmetric encryption.
- In symmetric encryption, information is encrypted and decrypted using the same key. There are two keys used in asymmetric encryption: a public key and a private key. These linked keys provide a more secure way of authenticating.

5. Provide an example of encryption we used in AWS deployment.
- We used a specific key and our own ports that we created to make sure that there is encryption when we deploy in AWS. 

6. Describe a phishing scheme you have learned about the hard way. Describe some other phishing techniques.
- One highly popular phishing method is the use of emails. In this method, a common or uninteresting subject is utilized, and an email is sent from an unknown email account requesting you to click a link that will either ask you for personal information or download malware onto your computer.